
Jenkins
=========
This section demonstrates the deployment of Jenkins as a pod in a Kubernetes cluster. You can spawn a Jenkins deployment which will use OpenEBS as its persistent storage.

Deploying Jenkins as a Pod
---------------------------

Deploying Jenkins as a pod provides the following benefits.

* Isolates different jobs from one another
* Quickly cleans a job’s workspace.
* Dynamically deploys or schedules jobs with Kubernetes pods
* Allows increased resource utilization and efficiency

Deploying Jenkins Pod with Persistent Storage
------------------------------------------------
Before getting started, check the status of the cluster using the following command.
::

    ubuntu@kubemaster:~kubectl get nodes
    NAME            STATUS    AGE       VERSION
    kubemaster      Ready     3d        v1.7.5
    kubeminion-01   Ready     3d        v1.7.5
    kubeminion-02   Ready     3d        v1.7.5

Download and apply the Jenkins YAML file from the OpenEBS repository using the following commands.
::

    ubuntu@kubemaster:~wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openebs/openebs/master/k8s/demo/jenkins/jenkins.yml
    ubuntu@kubemaster:~kubectl apply -f jenkins.yml

Get the status of running pods using the following command.
::

    ubuntu@kubemaster:~kubectl get pods
    NAME                                                             READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    jenkins-2748455067-85jv2                                         1/1       Running   0          9m
    maya-apiserver-3416621614-r4821                                  1/1       Running   0          17m
    openebs-provisioner-4230626287-7kjt4                             1/1       Running   0          17m
    pvc-c52aa2d0-bcbc-11e7-a3ad-021c6f7dbe9d-ctrl-1457148150-v6ccz   1/1       Running   0          9m
    pvc-c52aa2d0-bcbc-11e7-a3ad-021c6f7dbe9d-rep-2977732037-kqv6f    1/1       Running   0          9m
    pvc-c52aa2d0-bcbc-11e7-a3ad-021c6f7dbe9d-rep-2977732037-s6g2s    1/1       Running   0          9m

Get the status of underlying persistent volumes used by Jenkins deployment using the following command.
::

   ubuntu@kubemaster:~kubectl get pvc
   NAME            STATUS    VOLUME                                     CAPACITY   ACCESSMODES   STORAGECLASS       AGE
   jenkins-claim   Bound     pvc-c52aa2d0-bcbc-11e7-a3ad-021c6f7dbe9d   5G         RWO           openebs-standard   12m
  
Get the status of Jenkins service using the following command.
::

    ubuntu@kubemaster:~kubectl get svc
    NAME                                                CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)             AGE
    jenkins-svc                                         10.107.147.241   <nodes>       80:32540/TCP        25m
    kubernetes                                          10.96.0.1        <none>        443/TCP             3d
    maya-apiserver-service                              10.97.14.255     <none>        5656/TCP            33m
    pvc-c52aa2d0-bcbc-11e7-a3ad-021c6f7dbe9d-ctrl-svc   10.110.186.186   <none>        3260/TCP,9501/TCP   25m                            

Launching Jenkins
---------------------
The Jenkins deployment YAML, creates a NodePort service type to make Jenkins available outside the cluster. 

**Note:** 

The cluster is setup using vagrant VMs and the IP addresses are autogenerated by vagrant.

Get the node IP Address that is running the Jenkins pod using the following command.
::

    ubuntu@kubemaster:~kubectl describe pod jenkins-2748455067-85jv2 | grep Node:
    Node:		kubeminion-02/172.28.128.5

Get the port number from the Jenkins service using the following command.
::

    ubuntu@kubemaster-01:~ kubectl describe svc jenkins-svc | grep NodePort:
    NodePort:		<unset>	32540/TCP

Open the https://172.28.128.5:32540 URL in your browser.

**Note:**

The NodePort is dynamically allocated and may vary in a different deployment.

Once you access the URL the Getting Started page is displayed. The following procedure helps you setup Jenkins.

1. Provide the **initialAdminPassword** in the *Unlock Jenkins* screen and copy the password in the **Administrator password** field.
2. Click **Continue**.
3. Get the password using the following command:
::

    ubuntu@kubemaster:~kubectl exec -it jenkins-2748455067-85jv2 cat /var/jenkins_home/secrets/initialAdminPassword
    7d7aaedb5a2a441b99117b3bb55c1eff

4. In the *Customize Jenkins* screen click **Install suggested plugins**.
5. Configure the Administrator user in the *Create First Admin User* screen. Fill in the following fields.
   
   a. **Username:** - Key in the administrator username.
   b. **Password:** - Key in the password for the administrator.
   c. **Confirm password** - Key in the password again and confirm.
   d. **Full name** - Key in the administrator's full name.
6. Click **Continue as admin** if you want to perform further administrator tasks or click **Save and Finish**.   

You can now start using Jenkins.