
---
oep-number: draft Auto Snapshot deltion 20190715
title: Jiva auto snapshot deletion
authors:
  - "@utkarshmani1997"
owners:
  - "@vishnuitta"
  - "@payes"
  - "@utkarshmani1997"
editor: "@utkarshmani1997"
creation-date: 2019-07-15
last-updated: 2019-07-15
status: provisional
see-also:
  - NA
replaces:
  - NA
superseded-by:
  - NA
---

 # Jiva automatic snapshot deletion

 ## Table of Contents

 * [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
* [Summary](#summary)
* [Motivation](#motivation)
    * [Goals](#goals)
* [Proposal](#proposal)
    * [User Stories](#user-stories)
      * [Delete autogenerated snapshot](#delete-autogenerated-snapshot)
    * [Implementation Details](#implementation-details)
* [Drawbacks](#drawbacks)
* [Alternatives](#alternatives)

 ## Summary

 This proposal is aimed for the users who experience very frequent network glitch
 at there cluster, due to which replica get restarted and autogenerated snapshots
 files are created. A max of 512 snapshots can be created. Once 512 snapshots are
 created, the replica won't be able to connect again automatically and requires
 manual cleanup of snapshot.

 ## Motivation

 The motivation behind this approach is to remove/reduce the efforts of the user
 for managing the storage layer

 ### Goals

 - Ability to remove autogenerated snapshots automatically in background without
   any manual intervention or with minimal effort.

 ## Proposal
 Delete the autogenerated snapshots in jiva in the background

 ### User Stories
 #### Delete autogenerated snapshot:
 As a user i want to cleanup the autogenerated snapshots with no or minimal efforts

 ### Implementation Details

 Though there is a working flow of deletion of snapshot via REST Api/ jivactl cli
 but this requires manual intervention from user i.e, user needs to list the snap
 shots and delete it one by one via given approaches but if number of snapshots have
 been grown significantly it will take too much time to cleanup those snapshots.

 We will start a goroutine in controller, which will be started once it get signal
 on StartAutoSnapDeletion channel after replica get added to controller. This
 goroutine will verify the rebuild, check if the replication factor is met and other
 prerequisites, and then snapshot deletion will be triggered in the background.


 ## Drawbacks

 - Deletion of snapshot is time taking process since data needs to be merged to
   its siblings, so larger the data in snapshot, time taken for this will grow
   significantly and may impact the current IO's.
 - There are some cases where we may have stale snapshot entries if replica is
   restarted while snapshot deletion was in progress.

 ## Alternatives

 There are following approaches which can be used to implement this feature:

 a) **Manual deletion**:
 
 1. Delete snapshots via cli tool jivactl
       * `jivactl snapshot ls` to list snapshots
       * `jivactl snapshot rm <snap_name>` from above output
    
    *cons*:
       - User needs to delete the snapshots one by one by specifying snapshot name
       - Requires manual cleanup of snapshots if replicas are restarted while
         snapshot deletion is in progress by validating the chain and restart is
         required to rebuild the replica to be on the safer side.
         
 2. Delete v number of snapshots via cli tool jivactl
       * `jivactl snapshot rm <n>`
    
    *cons*:
       - Requires manual cleanup in case of snapshot deletion failure like above.

 b) **Cleanup in background**:
 
 1. Run a goroutine in controller to perform cleanup if number of snapshot grows to
    more than 10.
    
    *cons*:
       - Requires manual cleanup, same as previous alternative.
       
 2. Run a goroutine which will pick up snapshots based on its size and start
    cleaning up the snapshots which has size less then any given size (for
    exp < 2-5G).
    
    *cons*:
       - There are less chance of snapshot deletion failure, since smaller
         snapshots get merged to its siblings quickly. Requires manual cleanup
         in case it has failed like above.




